joining us now from ANA is Chief Philipe
lazarini has returned from a visit to
Rafa in southern Gaza he says the
conditions there are worsening as the
winter sets
in the lucky one are those who have a
place inside our premises and especially
now that winter has just started but the
others have absolutely nowhere to go
they live in the open they live in the
cold in the murder and under the rain
well joining me now is Adnan Abu hassna
and he's the anra spokesperson joining
us live now from Rafa uh good to have
you with us uh on the program can I just
Begin by asking you what the situation
is like where you are we've obviously
been reporting as of many media
organizations about the ongoing and very
quick deterioration across the Gaza
Strip
yes the CG had said just in your report
that it's a catastrophe it's tsunam in a
humanitarian T actually it's not only a
catastrophe especially last night when
it was raining and you find out and
everyone looks even from my window that
tens of thousands of of Palestinians of
displaced people that very simply that
their you know simple tents of being for
love
and because of the rain they were under
the rain and the mud it really
was a miser you know to look like that
anyway we have in our shelters now in
155 shelters more than 1.3 million idps
internal displaced persons they lack
everything you know we provide them with
a kind of food a kind of peen and a
bottle of water every 3 days we don't
know how can a family you know of five
members can survive with something like
that okay very simply people are
starving here okay Mr let me just take
this let me just take this one let me
just take this one step at a time
because the sound quality is obviously
pretty difficult and we appreciate there
are communication issues with you so
we'll be brief and quick as well let
tell us what sort of Aid has actually
been able to get into the region you've
told us the a little bit about what
people can get from you but how much Aid
have you received and how much more do
you actually
need look we are receiving today about
100 trucks you know through Rafa
Crossing Bond you know maybe 50% of the
trucks go to Palestina red Cresent and
50 the trucks going for onra among these
trucks we have sometimes 10 tracks of
water you know 20 trucks of food of and
other tracks of medicine and so on what
we need you know to get into Gaza we
need hundreds of tracks per day there's
a huge need without letting hundreds of
trucks you know and the commercial line
you know to get into Gaza I think that
we will uh suffer a lot the population
will suffer a lot and we as aeny will
not be delivered as everyone expecting
you know uh from us the huge is the need
is huge and what people needs you know
we cannot describe they need everything
they need mades they need they need
water they need medicine they need the
clothes even they don't have clothes
they need T they need everything and and
to do that you need the logistics you
need the Personnel you need the Manpower
you need the transport to be able to do
that that has been very difficult with
un Personnel also have been killed
during the
bombardment what is the need there
because there is also this conversation
that we've been having with uh Martin
Griffith's uh your un Chief here on
humanitarian Affairs talking about Law
and Order breaking down so therefore
your relief operation is also a threat
isn't it you need security to be able to
distribute that food
too yes that's right you know we have
you know our our colleague nearly 135
our colleagues had been killed during
this fighting and we have okay the
capacity we have 5,000 stuff working you
know on the ground but the disorder is
really expanding you know many of our
tracks had been you know looted because
of so many so many reasons and we
believe that we continue like that we we
were reached to a point that we cannot
deliver it's not only it's not only
because of you know what we get through
Rafa crossing point and now the
inspection through Kim Shalom you know
uh crossing point but what we got is not
enough it's not enough we the the
average of of tracks that we got it's
nearly 60 or 70 tracks per days on the
other hand the real need of the gazans
for humanitarian Aid and Commercial you
know line it's about 600 tracks per
there so we are talking about only 5% of
what should you know enter into
Gaza okay we'll have to leave it there
but it's good to get your update on the
situation so far Adan Abu hassna from
anra the UN agency looking after uh the
Palestinians in the Gaza Strip thank you